Welcome to the ARCOS Troubleshooting Guide! 

If you encountered a warning in the Command Window, go to Section A.
If you encountered an error in the Command Window, go to Section B.
If you didn't encounter an error but your results are unexpected, go to Section C. 

Section A
	Choose one:
		"Additional inputs must be provided as option, value pairs"
			You've incorrectly typed an optional parameter. Optional parameters should be given as follows: 'parameter_name', value
			Example: 'eps', 60.
			In context example: out = arcos(data,xy,'nEKAR','bin_perc',75);

		"Optional parameter 'bin_perc' not set. Binarizing data using 80th percentile threshold" 
			You have chosen not to specify a percentile by which to threshold your data for binarization.
			ARCOS is issuing this warning to let you know that it's automatically binarizing your data with default values.
			In most cases this will work just fine and you can simply ignore the warning.
			If you'd like to override the default you can provide ARCOS with your own percentile to threshold the data as an option-value pair.
			Example: out = arcos(data,xy,'nEKAR','bin_perc',75);

		"Well: P - Q timepoints had higher than expected epsilon values and may not cluster well"
			For well/xy P, there were Q timepoints that had unexpectedly high calculated epsilon values.
			Typically this means that the distribution of cells for well/xy P is not regular. Cells might be clumped up, resulting in regions of high and low density.
			Since that metric is used to calculate epsilon (a parameter of the DBSCAN clustering algorithm) clustering may not be ideal at high values.
			If you've encountered this warning you should plot clusters for this well/xy using arcos_plot and verify visually that clustering has been performed accurately.
			If clustering is inaccurate you can override ARCOS's automatic epsilon and minpts calculation by providing your own values.

		"Give at least one filter set... to filter the data..."
			You're attempting to filter data using arcos_analysis.filter() but you haven't provided a filter.
			Here's an example of what a filter should look like: fts(1).t = 'Min'; fts(1).c = 'dur'; fts(1).p = 5;
        		This would filter and keep all the data where the spread lasts at least 5 tps.

		"One of your filter parameters is empty, check them"
			One of the parameters by which you're trying to filter hasn't been specified. 
			Check that your filter is set up in this format: fts(1).t = 'Min'; fts(1).c = 'dur'; fts(1).p = 5;

		"Excessive NaNs detected in well P"
			If you're seeing this error then at least 70% of the data for well P is NaNs (Not A Number).
			Typically this appears when ARCOS is processing background wells, but it may also appear when the density of cells in the field is low.
			If you're seeing this error when ARCOS is processing non-background wells it's recommended that you check that clustering has been performed accurately. 
			Check the clust_by_time output of ARCOS and verify that values for eps (epsilon) and minpts are within usual range(50-80 for epsilon and 4-5 for minpts).
			Use arcos_plot to plot clusters for the problem well.
			If clustering is inaccurate you can override ARCOS's automatic epsilon and minpts calculation by providing your own values.

		"Do not close the figure until the process has finished"
			When running arcos_plot.plot() the function will open a figure in the current MATLAB window.
			Closing the figure before the function has had a chance to finish will interrupt the program and cause it to stop early, producing errors. 

		"Assuming equal numbers of files in both directories"
			This warning appears when running arcos_plot.gif_sbs. The GIF Side by Side function was designed for the user to make comparisons between results of different 
			processes on the same data. For example, viewing tracked vs untracked clusters. 
			It only works when both of the directories you've specified have equal amounts of files in each directory.

Section B
	Choose one: 
		"Perc should be a percentage <200, ex 85"
			You're seeing this error because the value of 'perc' you've provided for arcos_utils.binarize_robust is invalid.
			Values should be expressed as positive numbers less than 200. 

		"No bounds detected in data. Have you run analysis yet?"
			This error occurs when you're attempting to plot data with arcos_plot.plot(), optional parameter 'usebounds' is true (default), and your data has not yet been analyzed.
			The quickest solution is to simply toggle 'usebounds' off by adding 'usebounds',false to your call to arcos_plot.plot(), however this will plot clusters without bounds.
			If you wish to use bounds then you must first analyze your data with arcos_analysis.analyze() and provide that method's output to arcos_plot.plot(). 
 
		"Insufficient data. Analysis must be run first."
			This error occurs when you're attempting to run arcos_id_apoptosis but you haven't first run arcos_analysis.analyze() on your clust_by_id data.
			The solution, therefore, is to run arcos_analysis.analyze() and try again.

Section C
	Choose one:
                                                                    


Daniel Oberbauer - 6/15/2022